.TH PIXELKIT 1 "July 2026" "PixelKit 0.1.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pixelkit \- Linux color picker, magnifier, and screen ruler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pixelkit
[settings]
.br
.B pixelkit color-picker
[--image FILE.png]
.br
.B pixelkit magnifier
[--image FILE.png]
.br
.B pixelkit color-editor
[--color HEX]
.br
.B pixelkit screen-ruler
[--image FILE.png]
.br
.B pixelkit daemon
.br
.B pixelkit configure-shortcuts
.SH DESCRIPTION
PixelKit is a native system-wide color picker, configurable magnifier, color
editor, and screen ruler.
It uses direct X11 capture on X11 sessions and freedesktop screenshot and global
shortcut portals on Wayland.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B settings
Open the PixelKit settings and launcher window.
.TP
.B color-picker
Capture the screen and open the magnified pixel picker. Its loupe can appear as
a tooltip or remain centered on the pointer.
.TP
.B magnifier
Capture the screen and open a magnifier centered on the pointer. Use the mouse
wheel to change zoom and Escape or Backspace to close. Centered-grid and tooltip
styles, starting zoom, maximum zoom, grid size, cursor behavior,
capture behavior, and shortcut are configurable in the settings window.
.TP
.B color-editor
Open color history, adjustment, format, and export tools.
.TP
.B screen-ruler
Open the bounds and color-edge measurement overlay.
.TP
.B daemon
Register configured global shortcuts until the process exits.
.TP
.B configure-shortcuts
Open the desktop's Wayland shortcut configuration for PixelKit actions that
do not yet have an active binding.
.TP
.B formats HEX
Print all built-in representations for a color.
.TP
.B paths
Print the settings and history file paths.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PIXELKIT_FORCE_PORTAL
Use the screenshot portal even when PixelKit detects an X11 session.
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Base directory for settings.json. Defaults to ~/.config.
.TP
.B XDG_DATA_HOME
Base directory for history.json. Defaults to ~/.local/share.
.SH WAYLAND
Wayland deliberately prevents applications from silently reading arbitrary
pixels or grabbing global keys. PixelKit uses xdg-desktop-portal, so the
compositor may show a permission or target-selection dialog.
.SH FILES
.TP
~/.config/pixelkit/settings.json
User settings.
.TP
~/.local/share/pixelkit/history.json
Color history.
.SH LICENSE
MIT. PixelKit is independent of Microsoft and PowerToys.
